SECTION 27(G) - RELATIVE OF A SOUTH AFRICAN CITIZEN OR PERMANENT RESIDENCE HOLDER
Applicants applying under a minor South African child do not qualify. Applicants applying through a Permanent Residence holder who obtained status as a relative do not qualify.

Note: all documents issued by the issuing authority of the country of origin shall be original or certified copies and where applicable translated into english, which translation shall be certified as a correct translation by a sworn translator. 

Applicants must renew their temporary resident visa whilst awaiting the outcome for permanent residence permit

VFS appointment letter.
A duly completed DHA-947 form online. Handwritten forms will not be accepted by the Department of Home Affairs.
Payment of the application fee of R2870. If the application fee was paid to VFS bank account or the mission, an original bank payment receipt, where the application fee was paid using the Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT), receipt for each applicant.
Present a valid original passport in respect of each applicant and passport photograph for all applicants one year of age and older. A recent, passport-type, full face photograph bearing the names of the applicants on the reverse side thereof. (Machine-type or instant photographs are not acceptable).
A valid relative visa for temporary sojourn at the time of application in respect of each applicant, if the application is made in the Republic.
Proof of financial support to each other.
Unabridged birth certificate, or extract from birth record for applicant(s).
A deed poll in the case of the applicant who has changed his or her name, surname or sex.
Original Police clearance certificate issued by the police or security authority in each country where the relevant applicant resided for 12 months or longer after attaining the age of 18 years except for South Africa, in respect of criminal records or the character of that applicant, which certificate shall not be older than six months at the time of its submission: (Provided that the certificate shall not be required from a foreign country in the case of renewal or extension of a visa)
South African police clearance will be validated upon biometric enrolment at the VFS center effective as of 01 October 2016 at a fee of R175 (Inclusive of Vat) Per Applicant
Biometric enrolment fee applicable: Yes
Radiological report (not required in respect of children under the age of 12 years or a pregnant woman). The certificate must not be older than six (6) months at the time the applicant submits an application.
Medical report for all applicants. The certificate must not be older than six (6) months at the time the applicant submits an application.
Yellow fever vaccination certificate if that person travelled or intends travelling from or transit through a yellow fever endemic area: Provided that the certificate shall not be required where that person travelled or intends travelling in direct transit through such area or where an application is made in the Republic.
Proof that applicant is the relative of a citizen or permanent resident within the first step of kinship (Parents or dependents of the South African citizen or permanent resident).
Undertaking by the citizen or permanent resident that he or she is able and willing to support and maintain the foreign relative making the application.
Copies of Identity document, permanent residence permit and /or naturalisation certificate of a South African citizen or permanent resident.
Present yourself for biometrics at the visa facilitation centre.
