SECTION 26(C) - DEPENDENT OF A SOUTH AFRICAN CITIZEN OR PERMANENT RESIDENCE HOLDER UNDER THE AGE OF 18 YEARS (MINOR)
Note: all documents issued by the issuing authority of the country of origin shall be original or certified copies and where applicable translated into english, which translation shall be certified as a correct translation by a sworn translator. 

Applicants must renew their temporary resident visa whilst awaiting the outcome for permanent residence permit

VFS appointment letter.
A duly completed DHA-947 form online. Handwritten forms will not be accepted by the    Department of Home Affairs.
Payment of the application fee of R1350. If the application fee was paid to VFS bank account or the mission, an original bank payment receipt, where the application fee was paid using the Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT), receipt for each applicant.
Present a valid original passport in respect of each applicant and passport photograph for all applicants one year of age and older. A recent, passport-type, full face photograph bearing the names of the applicants on the reverse side thereof. (Machine-type or instant photographs are not acceptable).
A valid relative visa for temporary sojourn at the time of application in respect of each applicant joining parents, if the application is made in the Republic.
Unabridged birth certificate, or extract from birth record for applicant(s).
A deed poll in the case of the applicant who has changed his or her name, surname or sex.
Radiological report (not required in respect of children under the age of 12 years or a pregnant woman). The certificate must not be older than six (6) months at the time the applicant submits an application.
Medical report for all applicants. The certificate must not be older than six (6) months at the time the applicant submits an application.
Yellow fever vaccination certificate if that person travelled or intends travelling from or transit through a yellow fever endemic area: Provided that the certificate shall not be required where that person travelled or intends travelling in direct transit through such area or where an application is made in the Republic.
An undertaking by the citizen or the permanent resident he or she is able and willing to assume financial, emotional, medical and physical responsibility.
Written consent of both parents where only one of the parents is immigrating.
Copy of the Identity document of the parent(s) or legal guardian who is the citizen or permanent resident.
Copy of permanent residence permit if the parent(s) or legal guardian is a permanent resident.
Present yourself for biometrics at the visa facilitation center.